hi I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
fors of renal and this is the Rosary in
year podcast we're through prayer and
meditation the rosary brings us deeper
into relationship with Jesus and Mary
and becomes a source of Grace for the
whole world the Rosary in a year is
brought to you by Ascension this is day
five to download the prayer plan for
Rosary in a year visit
ascensionpress.com
Rosary in a year or text r y the
33777 you'll get an outline of how we're
going to PR month and it's a great way
to track your progress the best place to
listen to the podcast in the Ascension
app there are special features built
just for this podcast and also
recordings of the full Rosary with
myself and other
friers
so the more time I've been
spending here with the Litany of
Loretto and studying the various titles
in preparation the more time I want to
spend doing just that in preparing these
EP you say like really in in live time
my eyes are being opened to a treasure
of meditation that I'm just now
discovering the name of that podcast
however isn't the Litany of reto in a
year uh so today we're going to pick our
second and last of the Maran titles or
invocations from the Litany of Loretto
to focus on but it does touch on a
number of others from the litany
including Queen of Peace mystical Rose
mother most pure and Gate of Heaven
today's Maran title is Mary Mother in
Violet so I looked up in Violet and
violet means free or safe from injury
untouched unflawed
unprofor
pristine
whole Catholic tradition and many of our
great Saints have seen Mary Mother and
violet as being spoken of in the song of
songs the song of song songs 2:1 it says
I am a Rose of Sharon a lily of the
valleys Mary is seen as this Rose as the
rose of Sharon one of her titles is the
mystical Rose and this is where it goes
back to Song of Songs chapter
2 more specifically to our current title
mother and violet Song of Songs 4:2 says
a garden locked is my sister my ride a
garden locked a fountain sealed Mary is
the garden locked in the fountain sealed
in Violet
unprofor pristine
safe one of the great champions of
seeing the Rose Garden as the symbol of
Mary's Beauty and wisdom of St Bernard
of claro who popularized this with his
preaching in the 12th
century and here we're getting close to
the the backstory of why the rosary is
called the Rosary in general Mary was
associated with the Rose
Garden and the maryan Suter which was a
form of prayer which preceded the modern
day beaded Rosary as we have it it was
called a rosarium or a garden of
roses and so praying the rosary can be
seen as spending time with Mary the
garden locked and the fountain
sealed it can also be seen as sewing
together a crown of roses to offer to
Mary or it can be seen and understood to
be walking in the garden of
Jesus with
Mary my prayer with the Litany of
Loretto has been really nourished by my
reading of a book called our ladyes
titles by a Jesuit priest called father
Albert power I think it was published in
the 1930s and regarding this last image
he writes
this Mary's Garden of roses is all
fragrant with the Breath of
Heaven Jesus the God man with the light
of Heaven in his eyes and the sweetness
of divinity permeating his being is the
subject of our contemplation in this
Garden hence day by day she invites us
to this blessed
Garden to rest by its fountains and
running Brooks and breathe the scent of
its
flowers we go there to learn about the
soul of Jesus
I think that's strikingly beautiful
Mary's Garden of roses all fragrant with
the Breath of Heaven All right so just
to take a step back tomorrow we're GNA
we're going to talk about the rosary as
a weapon right so many great Saints
talked about the rosary as a weapon and
we're going to look at its role in the
spiritual battle that we're all involved
in we're going to go there tomorrow but
today today we're just going to remain
with Mary in the garden in her rose
garden now in Mary's Garden we could say
in the presence of Mary we are safe it
is a garden
inclosed it has high walls like it is
safe the world and its anxieties and its
dangers have no place in this Garden
they can't get
in and so in the presence of Mary in
this
garden with Mary Mother and violet we
can put down our
weapons our defense
mechanisms our masks our ongoing like
labor of constantly presenting our best
selves of
Performing of
hiding we can just stop scheming and
trying to solve all of our problems and
all of the world's
problems in other words like with Mary
in the garden of her Presence at the
Garden of her
heart we can
breathe we can quiet
[Music]
down we can be
still we can be
free we can be
filled with God's
peace we can
simply
be because in this
Garden we are
safe in your imagination and your prayer
now I'd invite you to
go to a beautiful garden with
Mary Place yourself with her in the
scene breathe
deeply be
still if you're weighed down by
anxieties and fears
speak them to
her see how she makes your anxieties
your fears her own how she takes it upon
herself allow her to take these from
you so many of us right we go through
life experiencing fear and so we can
almost constantly be in some state of
fight or flight our brows are furrowed
our
fist slightly
clenched like uneasy on
edge but now like look at
Mary look at this
beautiful protected and Safe
Garden allow the
tension to be
surrendered to be released
and allow it to be
replaced by the Peace of
Christ and now if we can allow just
these walls these means of protecting
ourselves our hearts to come
down instead of the toughness and the
worldly vigilance needed as men or women
at war in this
world as we often experience the world
as a literal Battleground let our hearts
become
softened in this Garden in her
presence let her take from us our hearts
of
stone and with the holy spirit gives us
hearts of Flesh
may we become
softened May our hearts become
tender as we receive the tender
love of Mary's own
heart and now let her speak to
you you as an individual in your
particular state in all of your present
realities let her speak to you the same
words she spoke to St Juan
Diego am I not
here I who am your
mother are you not under my shadow and
protection am I not the source of your
joy are you not in the hollow of my
mantle and the crossing of my
arms do you need something
more let nothing else worry
you or disturb
you brothers and
sisters I am convinced I deeply believe
that praying the
rosary can be a real mystical experience
of walking to the most pristine and Lush
and safe of gardens with Mary Mother in
Violet the Queen of Peace mother most
pure mystical
Rose the
rosary the Rosaria Mary's Garden it's
not just prayers to be
completed it
is a mystical Garden in which we can
find rest
safety and the Deep
unwavering peace of
God and as we go there each day and make
it a habit of going there what we'll
notice is that with Mary like the
battleground of
life is
transformed into a garden
enclosed and we don't have to pick back
up our weapons of the
world we don't have to put the walls
back up we don't have to put the whole
weight of the world on our
shoulders but we can live
freely safely and
Tenderly as is right of the children of
God
and as is right of the children of
Mary as we conclude today's
episode in
prayer my
invitation is that you find this
Garden that you find Mary in this
Garden again with the help of Grace and
your imagination enter into the is
seen so that we can visit it today that
we can visit it each time we pray the
rosary and more and more again as it
becomes a habit of
prayer we can be taken to this
Garden no matter what we're doing
wherever we
are and so let us pray in the name of
the father and of the son and of the
holy spirit amen
Our Father who art in heaven Hallowed be
thy name thy kingdom come thy will be
done on Earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
Deliver Us from Evil
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us
sinners now and at the hour of our death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen glory be to the father and to the
son and to the Holy Spirit as it was in
the beginning is now and ever shall be
World Without End Amen Amen in the name
of the father and of the son and of the
holy
spirit amen all right thank you so much
for joining me and praying with me today
I look forward to continuing this
journey with you tomorrow all right Poco
po friends God bless y'all